Java Regular Expressions
------------------------
A regular expression is a sequence of character that forms a search pattern .When you seach for data in a text, you can use this search pattern to descible what you are searching for.

A Regular Expressions can be used to perform all types of text search and text replace operations.

A Regular Expression can be a single character or a moew complicated pattern.

package: java.util.regex

java.util.regex package includes the following classes:
-------------------------------------------------------
Pattern class- Defines a pattern(to be used in a search)
Matcher Class- Used to search for the pattern.
PatternSyntaxExcepiton Class- Indicates syntax error in a regular expression pattern.


import java.util.regex.*;
public class main{
	public static void main(String[] args)
	{
		Pattern pattern=Pattern.compile("w3schools",Pattern.CASE_INSENSITIVE);
		Matcher matcher= pattern.matcher("Visit W3Schools!");
		boolean matchFound= matcher.find();
		if(matchFound)
		{
			System.out.println("Match Found");
		}else{
		System.out.println("Match not found");
		}
	}
}

In this example,The word "w3schools" is being searched for in a sentence.

First,the pattern is created using Pattern.compile() method. The first parameter indicates which pattern is being searched for in a sentence.
Second parameter has a flag to indicate that the search be case -insensitive . The Second parameter is optional.

The Matcher() method is used to search for the pattern in a string .It returns a Matcher object which contains information about the search that was performed.

The find() method of Matcher class returns true if the pattern was found in the string and false if it was not found.


Flags can be
1)Pattern.CASE_INSENSITIVE- the case of letters will be ignored when performing a search.
2)Pattern.LITERAL-Special character will not have any special meaning and will be treted as ordinary charcters while prforming a search.
3)Pattern.UNICODE_CASE-use it together with the CASE_INSENSITIVE flag to also ignore the case of letters outside of the English Alphabet.


